---
sidebar_position: 7
slug: philosophie
title: Philosophy
description: We provide a cashless, ticketing and restaurant management solution for small structures forgotten by large companies.
image: https://tibillet.org/img/logoTibMJ4300.png
keywords: [ cashless, billetterie, ticketing, philosophy, venue, catering ]
wiktags: [ cashless, billetterie, ticketing, philosophy, venue, catering ]
authors: jonas
---

## How are we different?

We are an open source project, which means that the source code is available and accessible to everyone.
This makes it possible to modulate and personalize the solution according to its specific needs.

It has been developed and maintained by a cooperative, which means that the profits generated by the project are distributed equitably among the cooperative members.

It's a circular economy based model which aims to promote the reuse and valorization of already existing resources.

We offers competitive prices for the purchase of equipment and the provision of services, 
with the possibility of renting the equipment for a short period of time.

TiBillet is setting up a federated cashless wallet system, which allows users to spend and exchange 
in an entire network of cultural places, with the same NFC card.
No more single-use festival bracelets!

By using blockchain to verify transactions, TiBillet aims to ensure maximum transparency and security in the exchange of the entire network.

TiBillet sets up tools for users and for event organizers wishing to create links and synergy between the different actors in a territory.

It is a social and solidarity solution: by offering beneficiaries the opportunity to join the SCIC (community interest company), TiBillet offers a unifying solution which makes it possible to develop a region cultural offer, to create a link between it's different networks and cultural spaces and to invite the circulation of artists and audiences.

### Did you say cooperative ?

TiBillet cashless is a decentralized payment system that allows users to spend and exchange money in a network of café-concerts, third places and associative artisans, with the same wallet.

Money recharged to the cashless wallet is available for life and refundable at any time, provided it remains active.
If a user does not use it for a certain period of time, and after numerous reminders encouraging the user to use their card in the network, the remaining money is gradually collected and reinjected into the cooperative system.

This is done with full transparency and with the knowledge of the wallet holder.

TiBillet's federated cashless wallet system thus makes it possible to keep money circulating in the network and to support the creation of new places and cultural events.

In fact, the money collected is redistributed between all the actors in the network and helps to create new cultural spaces that wish to join the network.

### What does this look like in practice ?

Here is an example from the point of view of a TiBillet user as a festival-goer:

Imagine that you are a music enjoyer and used to frequenting many festivals and cultural events in your area.

Thanks to TiBillet, you can buy your concert and festival tickets online, top up your cashless wallet on your smartphone and use this same wallet to buy food, drinks and all kinds of products on site. All this, without having to carry physical currency or credit cards, by using a local and federated currency throughout an entire territory, and by enormously simplifying the financial management of the organizing associations.

But TiBillet doesn't stop there.
As a member of an instance, you are part of a network of beneficiaries from third places, cooperatives and associations who are committed to the social and solidarity economy and the promotion of culture in their region. .

You can therefore benefit from a federated agenda which allows you to discover new cultural events offered by other members of the network and to participate in collective projects aimed at supporting the cultural sector in your territory.

Meetings, workshops, concerts, events, conferences, exhibitions, shows, screenings, etc. Everything can be organized via TiBillet.

Finally, thanks to the time currency offered by TiBillet, you can also contribute to the life of the places you love by donating your time and your skills.
For example, you can offer to volunteer at a festival or at a third place 
in exchange for time credit allocated on the cashless card, which you can use to benefit from a future workshop.

### I organize cultural events in my concert café, what's the benefit for me ?

For an event organizer, using TiBillet has many advantages.

First of all, it benefits from a complete and intuitive ticketing and venue management system, which allows it to efficiently manage
reservations and on-site transactions.
In addition, by using cashless, TiBillet can offer an interesting alternative to cash or card payments:

- It can offer preferential rates for cashless card users, which helps build user loyalty and encourage them to return to events.
- It helps reduce costs related to cash and bank card transactions, particularly in terms of cash management and security.
- It offers better traceability of transactions and better visibility on customer consumption habits.
- It greatly reduces waiting times at the checkouts and streamlines customer circulation in the premises. (+30% sales!)
- It benefits from a venue management and ordering system which optimizes order taking, kitchen preparation and inventory management.
- It can be used to provide targeted offers and promotions to customers, based on their spending habits.
- It can be used to establish partnerships with other actors in the cultural sector, by offering customers benefits in other partner locations.

By using the cooperative model, event organizers can also integrate into a network of partners and festivals, which allows them to promote their event to a wider audience and create synergies with other stakeholders in the cultural industry.

Finally, by using a local currency, they can contribute to the emergence of a social, solidarity and circular economy.

## And for artists ?

TiBillet's federated agenda is a tool for promoting cultural events which showcase the various events organized by the cooperative's partners.
It is a collaborative tool that allows events in the same region to be grouped together and highlighted to a target audience.

For artists, the creation of a dedicated space and its connection with the federated agenda is a way to make themselves known to a wide audience and to find distribution opportunities.

By being present on the federated agenda, artists can send proposals, be spotted by event organizers and thus be invited to perform in different partner venues of the cooperative.
